README.md, before:

# scrape-train-timings
scrape local train timings for `pune to lonavala` trains 
and calculate the `timing differences` between various stations

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)](https://github.com/coolharsh55/harshp.com/blob/master/LICENSE)

requirement came from my other project: 
[PNL2LNL](http://brainbank.harshp.com/pnl2lnl/)

## what does it do?
It scrapes information from online sources ( currently punediary) 
to retrieve local train information and calculates the time taken to go from each station to the next. 
It also calculates the average time difference for each train stop.

### why is this information needed?
Initially, the requirement is to check if the time difference between stations is the same 
for every train (along the same direction and route).

## what does it use?
`scrapy` to scrape the information
and `python` for a script to parse the `json` and print pretty output containing the timing information

## how to use the information?
There are two files called `up.json` and `down.json` containing scraped, cleaned, and corrected data 
for up/down local train timings respectively. The format is:

```
[
    {
        'station': 'station_name',
        'stops'  : ['HH.MM', ...]
    }
]
```

Along with the scraped data, there is additional data in the following `json` files:
 - `up_stations.json` and `down_stations.json`: contain the stations listed
 - `up_trains.json` and `down_trains.json`: contains a list of the train runs
 - `up_data.json` and `down_data.json`: contain average train run timings between stops

### using with `scrapy`

the repo is a `scrapy` project called learn-scrapy (because I'm learning `scrapy`) 
and as such can be used like any other scrapy project.

```
# install scrapy first
$:> pip install scrapy

# at project root
$:> scrapy crawl up_spider -o up.json
$:> scrapy crawl down_spider -o down.json
$:> python diff.py > op.txt
```

> __note__: the scraped information contains incorrect information 
> about the timings which must be corrected manually

Commit message:

export formatted data in json
Added formatted data in a json format in file `data_formatted.json`. This contains stations, trains, and timings. All json files have been moved to `data` folder. Filenames changed to more semantic ones.

Signed-off-by: Harshvardhan Pandit <coolharsh55@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# scrape-train-timings
scrape local train timings for `pune to lonavala` trains 
and calculate the `timing differences` between various stations

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)](https://github.com/coolharsh55/harshp.com/blob/master/LICENSE)

requirement came from my other project: 
[PNL2LNL](http://brainbank.harshp.com/pnl2lnl/)

## what does it do?
It scrapes information from online sources ( currently punediary) 
to retrieve local train information and calculates the time taken to go from each station to the next. 
It also calculates the average time difference for each train stop.

### why is this information needed?
Initially, the requirement is to check if the time difference between stations is the same 
for every train (along the same direction and route).

## what does it use?
`scrapy` to scrape the information
and `python` for a script to parse the `json` and print pretty output containing the timing information

## how to use the information?
All data is available as `json` data in the `data` folder. There are two files called `up.json` and `down.json` containing scraped, cleaned, and corrected data 
for up/down local train timings respectively. The format is:

```
[
    {
        'station': 'station_name',
        'stops'  : ['HH.MM', ...]
    }
]
```

Along with the scraped data, there is additional data in the following `json` files:
### generated with `data.py`
 - `up_stations.json` and `down_stations.json`: contain the stations listed
 - `up_trains.json` and `down_trains.json`: contains a list of the train runs
 - `up_data.json` and `down_data.json`: contain average train run timings between stops
 - `data.txt` contains all above information as a text file

### generated with `data_formatted.py`
 - `data_formatted.json` containing station, train, and timing data formatted for easier use
     + **stations**: contains a list of station names from _Pune_ to _Lonavala_
     + **trains**: contains a list of `dict` containing train information:
         * **departure_time**: time of departure for the train in minutes since midnight
         * **origin_station**: index of first station where the train starts from `stations`
         * **destination_station**: index of last station where the train stops from `stations`
     + **timings**: contains a list of lists, each containing train timings as `dict`:
         * **station**: index of station from `stations`
         * **train**: index of train from `trains`
         * **timing**: timing of the train stop in minutes from midnight
 - `data_formatted.txt` contains all above information as a text file

### using with `scrapy`

the repo is a `scrapy` project called learn-scrapy (because I'm learning `scrapy`) 
and as such can be used like any other scrapy project.

```
# install scrapy first
$:> pip install scrapy

# at project root
$:> scrapy crawl up_spider -o up.json
$:> scrapy crawl down_spider -o down.json
$:> python diff.py > op.txt
```

> __note__: the scraped information contains incorrect information 
> about the timings which must be corrected manually
